/recipes Create Recipe - POST; Add a new recipe to the database. Recipe details incluuded in request body
/recipes/{recipeID} Read Recipe - GET; Retrieve details of recipe. Use of recipe name/id as part of URL or request parameters
/recipes/{recipeID} Update Recipe - PUT/PATCH; Update an existing recipe. Update the entire recipe. (PATCH update parts of recipe)
/recipes/{recipeID} Delete Recipe - DELETE; Permanently remove recipe from database. Use of recipe name/id as part of URL or request parameters
/recipes/search General Search - GET; Search for specific recipe in database. Can be included in URL or request parameters
/recipes/findByIngredient Search by Ingredients - GET; Search for recipes based on specific ingredients. Ingredients included in URL or request parameters.
/recipes/findByCategory Search by Recipe Categories - GET; Search specific recipe categories eg Dinner, Lunch. Category included in URL or request parameters
/recipes/findByCookingMethod Search by Cooking Method - GET; Search recipes based on cooking method eg Microwave, Oven. Cooking Method included in URL or request parameters


Error Handling

Create new recipe: 
Validation Error: Required fields are missing or invalid data.  400
Authentication Failure: The user is not authenticated to add a new recipe. 401
Server Error: An unexpected server error occurs. 500

Read Recipe:
Recipe Not Found: The specified recipe ID does not exist. 404
Authentication Failure: The user is not authenticated to read a recipe. 401

Update Recipe:
Recipe Not Fond: The specified recipe ID does not exist. 404
Authentication Failure: The user is not authenticated to update a recipe. 401
Validation Error: Invalid data for updating the recipe. 400

Delete Recipe:
Recipe Not Found: The specified recipe ID does not exist. 404
Authentication Failure: The user is not authenticated to delete a recipe. 401

Search Recipe:
Recipe Not Found: The specified recipe ID does not exist. 404
Ingredient Not Found: The specified ingredient does not exist. 404
Category Not Found: The specified category does not exist. 404
Result Not Found: The search query did not yield matching recipes. 404
Cooking Method Not Found: The specified cooking method does not exist. 404
Invalid Search Criteria: The search criteria contains invalid data. 400
Authentication Failure: The user is not authenticated to perform the search. 401
Server Error: An unexpected server error occurs. 500
